#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../Master.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions and recomendations 
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this chapter the conclusions from the research are presented.
 Recommendations for future work are also exposed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bushfire events information is more consistent after the second half the
 20th century in Victoria, Australia.
 Any robust analysis of bushfire behaviour that relies on fire activity
 will be most likely limited to this period of analysis.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On average, bushfire fire weather patterns present different characteristics
 than heatwaves in Victoria Australia.
 The differences are more evident for relative humidity, which presents
 dry conditions for bushfires and heatwaves in Victoria, but dry conditions
 in the rest of Australia for bushfires and wet conditions for heat waves.
 The differences are present at the daily as well as the seasonal time scale
 and are consistent with different sources of bushfire event information
 and independent of the heatwave definition adopted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Only for extreme events, it was demonstrated that heat waves do have a link
 with bushfire occurrences.
 Extreme heatwave events precondition extreme bushfire occurrences.
 In all other cases, frontal activity has a greater influence over bushfire
 occurrences than extreme heat conditions I think I need I little bit more
 of quantitative evidence about the role of frontal activity).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An strong El Niño pattern is present in the Tropical Pacific Ocean during
 the bushfire season (DJF) in Victoria.
 However, the pattern is weak during spring (SON) and does not offer much
 skill to quantitatively forecast seasonal bushfire weather in the next
 season using empirical techniques based on the large-scale patterns of
 climate variables.
 It can only partially explain the bushfire weather behaviour, because it
 only shows skill to anticipate precipitation.
 The role of climate in this phenomena is more complex in Victoria, and
 requires the incorporation of regional and local climate processes which
 could have much greater role in bushfire occurrences.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The VSBI has demonstrated to be a valid index to represent simultaneous
 (DJF) seasonal bushfire weather in Victoria, Australia.
 It offers a more simple approach to estimate seasonal bushfire weather
 than seasonal metrics of the FFDI, with the advantage of a much simple
 calculation process.
 It also provides a slightly better skill to examine concurrent fire activity
 in this region.
 However, the index does not offer forecasting skill.
 Extend the VSBI calculation back in time for DJF, as you did for the seasonal
 metrics of FFDI, since you have demonstrated that it offers similar or
 even better results.
 On the other hand, bushfire weather in Ecuador is strongly influenced by
 El Nino Southern Oscillation.
 The direct use of ENSO indices has demonstrated the association with seasonal
 bushfire weather and even forecasting skill up to three months.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Which bushfire weather index is better for Ecuador.
 The FFDI or the FWI?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The bias in the reanalysis data are much larger in Ecuador that Victoria.
 However, in both regions the variability of most bushfire weather variables
 is well grasped with the exception of precipitation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Recomendations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be interesting to extend the availability of robust bushfire events
 records before 1950 in Victoria, Australia.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The investigation of forecasting schemes for Victoria, Australia perhaps
 would be better approached using dynamical models that incorporate the
 physics of regional and local climate processes (e.g.
 atmosphere-land interaction).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would also be appropriate to downscale the analysis, and study separately
 each region of Victoria, including the vegetation growth and dryness dynamics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another interesting approach would be the analysis of climate patterns associate
d with lighting occurrences.
 This could offer some predictability skill, since it would only analyse
 the climate system and eliminate the unpredictable human behaviour.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The investigation of forecasting schemes for extreme heat waves is another
 opportunity for further research.
 It would not only help prevent the health impacts associated with them,
 but also increase the likelihood to predict extreme bushfires occurrences.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For Ecuador, it would be necessary to start the development of bushfire
 occurrences records.
 This could be completely feasible using satellite images and newspaper
 information at least up to the year 1980 (30 years of data).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The development of an bushfire weather index for Ecuador (or Tropical Andes)
 is another future endeavour.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
