#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../Master.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Literature review 
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Fire weather synoptic patterns 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Synoptic patterns help us understand how the climate system drives meteorologica
l events.
 Fire weather in southeastern Australia has a typical pattern.
 Over the Tasman Sea, a quasi-stationary anticyclone is present.
 Its circulation advects hot and dry air from the interior of the continent.
 These environmental conditions make vegetation prone to fire ignitions.
 At the same time, a cyclone over the Southern Ocean supports the arrival
 of cold fronts to this region.
 These cold fronts can turn a “bad” fire weather day into a catastrophic
 event.
 They change and extending the flank of the fire fronts (citations).
 Several fire weather studies describe this pattern.
 Most investigations focus on the catastrophic events.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mills (2005) performed an evaluation of the meteorological conditions of
 "Ash Wednesday".
 This study used a contemporary numerical weather prediction model to simulate
 the event.
 The investigation used data from the Australian National Meteorological
 Centre.
 The author also used The National Centre for Environmental Prediction (NCEP)
 reanalysis dataset.
 Mills (2005) proposed a parameter to assess and predict fire weather.
 The study used the 850 hPa level horizontal temperature gradient.
 The cyclone-anticyclone dipole structure is the basis for this parameter.
 Extreme fires are more likely to occur when there are greater temperature
 differences between the cold front air mass and the hot column of air over
 southern Australia.
 Using this criterion, Mills (2005) established that "Ash Wednesday" ranks
 in the 0.1% of events using 40 years of reanalysis data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Reproducing the arrival of cold fronts is the key factor in forecasting
 extreme fire weather (citations).
 Mills (2005) investigation also comprised a simulation that provided further
 insights on the wind structures that made “Ash Wednesday” catastrophic.
 It highlighted that not only the mobility of the frontal system created
 this extreme fire event, but also the depth of the trough system.
 In this study, the cold front arrival was simulated with a 1-hour lag.
 Over time, computer simulations of extreme fire events in this region have
 become more sophisticated.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Engels et al.
 (2012) simulated the meteorological conditions of "Black Saturday".
 Their study focused on simulating with great detail the mesoscale phenomena.
 The investigation also determined the spatial and temporal variability
 of fire danger.
 The investigation used the UK Met Office Unified Model.
 The highest resolution of the model reaches has a 444 m of horizontal grid
 spacing.
 This simulation proved to be quite accurate.
 It reproduced the arrival of the cold front of that day with a 30 minutes
 lag compared to observations.
 Using the results of the numerical model, the McArthur's Forest Fire Danger
 Index was computed (Noble et al., 1980).
 The paper demonstrates how changes in temperature, humidity and wind influenced
 the spatial and temporal variability of fire danger on "Black Saturday".
 The specific mesoscale meteorological conditions of that day provoked these
 changes.
 The fine resolution of this modelling effort also allowed to understand
 the effects of topography on fire weather.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mills (2005) and Engels et al.
 (2012) are examples of the approach that many studies use to examine fire
 weather in this region.
 Both have used a single case study to simulate and explain fire weather
 behavior.
 “Ash Wednesday” and "Black Saturday" are the most relevant cases regarding
 human fatalities and economic impact, and therefore the focus of great
 research attention.
 Investigating single case fire weather studies has been useful to identify
 the main characteristics of these events.
 However, fire weather research with a long-term synoptic approach has been
 less common.
 Exploring the synoptic climate signal based on a long-term analysis could
 contribute to extending the lead time of the forecasts.
 Addtionally, a synoptic climatology could contribute to the understanding
 the mechanisms that drive fire weather.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Reeder et at.
 (2015) provided further insights on fire weather patterns with a long-term
 approach.
 They investigated the role of Rossby waves and extreme fronts on fire weather.
 This research used the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
 ERA-interim Reanalysis.
 The analysis covered the period 1979-2010 and focused on southeastern Australia.
 The study used days with extreme cold fonts days to define extreme fire
 weather events.
 A surface temperature drop of a least of 17 oC ( ▵ T>1 7 o C ) after the
 passage of the cold front defined extreme cold fronts.
 Identifying extreme and strong cold fronts ( 12 o C< ▵ T<17 o C ) proved
 to be useful in establishing fire weather days.
 Using this criterion, composites of several weather variables were computed.
 The computation included Rossby waves breaking anomalies.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Reeder et at.
 (2015) attribute an anticyclone in the Tasman Sea as the driver of hot
 and dry air to southeastern Australia.
 The amplification of a Rossby wave that eventually overturns produces this
 anticyclone.
 The Rossby wave breaking produces a potential vorticity anomaly in this
 region.
 This mechanism has been attributed to the occurrence of heatwaves.
 However, Reeder et at.
 (2015) argue that fire weather and heatwave conditions are usually different.
 This study only mentions that cold fronts are the defining feature of fire
 weather.
 It would be interesting to explore if the differences between these two
 types of events.
 Our ability to predict these events could benefit from an understanding
 of the characteristics that distinguish them.
 The interactions between them also remain unexplored.
 Therefore, to investigate this relationship, it is also important to review
 the heatwave literature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pezza et al.
 (2012) investigated the synoptic climatology of heatwaves in southern Australia.
 This study provided an original heatwave definition.
 Three consecutive days with maximum temperature above the 90th percentile
 define a heatwave.
 The criteria included the lack of relief during the nights.
 The minimum temperature on the second and third days should also be above
 the 90th percentile.
 The definition required using a monthly climatology.
 The period of analysis was 1979 2008.
 The investigation used an automatic tracking scheme (citations).
 With this system, the Pezza et al.
 (2012) investigated the trajectories of the cyclones and anticyclones.
 The study determined that a high in the Tasman Sea produces heatwave conditions
 in southeastern Australia.
 A wave train amplification that starts in the Indian Ocean creates the
 anticyclone.
 In contrast to fire weather research, the investigation of heatwaves has
 considered the interactions or co-occurrences with other extreme events.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Boschat et al.
 (2014) examined the large-scale connections between heatwaves in Victoria
 and extreme rainfall events in Queensland.
 The co-occurrence of these events motivated this study.
 In this investigation, they computed composites of several climate variables
 during the period 1979-2013.
 These computations used the ERA-interim reanalysis.
 The results were not sensitive to the use of alternative reanalysis products.
 Additionally, the investigation included an air parcels trajectory simulation.
 The air parcel tracking started on the first day of the extreme event.
 This study found that there is no dynamic link between heatwaves in Victoria
 and extreme rainfall events in Queensland.
 Tropical convection drives extreme rainfall events in Queensland.
 This convention usually occurs during strong “La Nina” events.
 On the other hand, heatwaves in Victoria are locally driven.
 An anticyclone produced by a wave train amplification that starts in the
 in the Indian Ocean generates heatwaves.
 Boschat et al.
 (2014) acknowledge that this anticyclone pattern is also present during
 extreme rainfall events in southern Queensland.
 However, the air parcel tracking allowed to determine that a different
 process forms this anticyclone.
 The high pressure system forms as part of a tropical-ex-tropical influence
 of "La Nina" events.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pezza et al.
 (2012) investigation undertakes the synoptic climatology approach that
 seems less explored in fire weather.
 It appears that a lack of robust fire activity records hampers these studies.
 For example, Mills (2005) and Reeder et al.
 (2015) rely first on weather parameters to identify extreme fire days.
 Mills (2005) used the 850 hPa horizontal temperature gradient before the
 cold front arrival.
 On the other hand, Reeder et al.
 (2015) used the temperature difference after the passage of the cold front.
 In both cases, they validated they approaches with the available fire activity
 dates.
 These dates are scarce in the scientific literature.
 Therefore, the logical behind their approaches is sound.
 Oficial bushfire records of the Victorian Government have not been peer-reviewe
d.
 However, they have been used in other fire investigations (Harris 2013).
 Therefore, they could be useful to investigate long-term fire weather patterns.
 Pezza et al.
 (2012) also mention that fire and heatwaves are related events without
 providing further details.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Maximum and minimum temperature are the basic variables to compute heatwaves.
 Long-term and high-quality records of these variables span the entire the
 entire 20th century.
 For example, the Australian Climate Observations Reference Network - Surface
 Air Temperature (ACORN-SAT) dataset (citation).
 Therefore, the feasibility to perform long-term analysis increases.
 Despite this, the long-term analysis of heatwaves only starts on the nineteen-s
eventies.
 For example, Pezza et al.
 (2012) acknowledge that their study period is not long enough to establish
 significant trends.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Additionally, the investigations have focused on the sub-regional processes
 that drive fire weather.
 However, climate modes of variability exert a significant influence on
 weather—and fire weather—in Australia.
 For example, “El Nino” events generally bring dry conditions to Australia
 (Risbey, 2009).
 On the other, hand wet conditions are usually linked to a “La Nina” events.
 Moreover, the Indian Ocean dynamics has contributed to several droughts
 in southeastern Australia (citations).
 In fact, positive phases of the Indian Ocean Dipole produce hot and dry
 conditions during in spring in Victoria.
 These environmental conditions contribute to the availability of fuels
 and an increase in extreme fire events in this region (Cai, 2009).
 A large-scale analysis of the weather patterns associated with fire activity
 in this region could offer further insights to disentangle the influences
 of these climate modes of variability over fire weather.
 To accomplish this, a long-term analysis of fire weather is again necessary.
 A synoptic climatology of fire weather could contribute to having greater
 confidence in the global patterns that drive fire weather in this region.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Fire weather long-term variability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Fire weather forecasting and climate modes of variability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "/Users/danielpazmino/Documents/My_research/Thesis/LyX/library"
options "/Users/danielpazmino/Documents/My_research/Thesis/LyX/Bibliography/ametsoc"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
