#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../Master.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Concluding remarks and recomendations for future work 
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This thesis investigated fire weather in two regions of the Southern Hemisphere.
 These study areas were: Victoria, Australia and the Ecuadorian Andes.
 Large-scale weather patterns shaped the development of a fire weather index
 for Victoria.
 The research used this index to explore past fire weather changes in this
 region.
 It also tested the index's skill to predict extreme fire weather seasons.
 Finally, the study assessed the ability of the McArthur Forest Fire Danger
 Index to represent fire weather in Ecuador.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The major findings of this investigation are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bushfire and heatwave weather patterns display differences in Victoria.
 Cold fronts define extreme fire weather in this region.
 In contrast, persistent excess heat characterises heatwaves.
 Australia experiences dry conditions during fire activity in Victoria.
 On the other hand, a dry southern Australia contrasts with wet regions
 during heatwaves.
 The patterns show a clear influence of "El Niño" events during bushfires.
 Conversely, heatwaves in this region are not driven by this climate mode
 of variability.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Positive Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) and "El Niño" events precondition fire
 activity in Victoria.
 The main effect of these two drivers is to reduce the relative humidity
 in spring.
 This reduction generates dry conditions that prepare vegetation for ignitions.
 The influence of positive IOD events over fire weather is greater than
 "El Niño" phases in spring.
 However, the two climate modes of variability are strongly linked.
 In summer, "El Niño" events become the most important remote driver of
 fire weather.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Victoria experienced an increase in fire danger during the period 1974-2010.
 Observations confirmed this finding using three seasonal fire weather metrics.
 Moreover, the most robust reanalysis trend traces the increase back to
 1920.
 Rising temperatures coupled with a decrease in rainfall contributed to
 this long-term tendency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A simple index (VSBI) based on local and remote climate drivers shows skill
 to forecast fire weather in Victoria.
 This metric demonstrates seasonal predictive capability from spring to
 summer.
 Additionally, the VSBI demonstrates comparable accuracy to represent fire
 weather than current metrics (FFDI).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fire danger season in the Ecuadorian Andes is longer than reported.
 Local information suggests that the months with greater fire activity are
 July, August, September.
 However, the evidence shows that fire danger is still "high" in the later
 two months.
 Weather observations confirm this finding for the period 1997-2012.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is a link between the "El Niño" phase of ENSO and higher fire danger
 in the Ecuadorian Andes.
 ENSO influences fire weather in this region through its effect on temperature
 and precipitation.
 In contrast to the coastal response, the highlands experience rainfall
 reductions during "El Niño".
 Simultaneously, temperature increases in the Andes during these events.
 A higher forest fire danger during "El Niño" is consistent with its impacts
 on other Andean natural systems (e.g., glacier retreats).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition, this thesis identified several aspects that deserve further
 investigation:
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
