#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../Master.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction 
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Context
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bushfires produce massive impacts in Australia.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Haynes2010"

\end_inset

 categorised them as the fourth most lethal natural hazard in this country.
 Several catastrophic events have contributed to this ranking.
 For example, the “Black Saturday” fires produced 173 fatalities in February
 of 2009 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Teague2010"

\end_inset

.
 Additionally, bushfires not only threaten life but also impact the Australian
 economy.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "McAneney2009"

\end_inset

 reports that bushfires are responsible for 20% of property losses in Australia.
 In fact, only the costs of the "Ash Wednesday" fires of 1983 reached $1.63
 billion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Unfortunately, there is evidence sugggesting that future bushfires could
 become more dangerous in several regions of Australia.
 The south-east of the continent might experience greater risk.
 For example, days with “very high” and “extreme” fire danger would become
 more common 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Lucas2007"

\end_inset

.
 On the other hand, 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "Clarke2011"

\end_inset

 argues that future fire seasons could start earlier and be more prolonged.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In southeastern Australia, the state of Victoria is one the most bushfire
 prone and vulnerable areas.
 This region endured the most catastrophic bushfire events in Australian
 history (e.g.
 "Black Friday" 1939, "Ash Wednesday" 1983, "Black Saturday" 2009).
 Additionally, half of the economic impacts in Australia occurred in Victoria
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Luke1978"

\end_inset

.
 Furthermore, climate projections also suggest its fire danger risk will
 increase 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Clarke2011"

\end_inset

.
 Therefore, Victoria is a region where preparedness for fire seasons is
 of utmost importance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Currently, the state of Victoria in Australia uses a qualitative approach
 to make seasonal bushfire forecasts 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Harris2013"

\end_inset

.
 These forecasts are based on antecedent conditions of maximum temperature,
 soil moisture, vegetation density and the phase of climate modes of varaibility
 such as El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO).
 Additionally, the estimation is also complemented with the outlook of climate
 variables such as maximun and minimum temperature as well as precipitation.
 Worldwide, the application of statistical seasonal forecasting schemes
 to predict similar climate-related natural hazards such as floods and droughts
 has been demonstrated to be viable and in continous improvement 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "Murphy2001"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Aim and Scope
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Significance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This research is important becuase it will empower the public, emergency
 response institutions, and policy makers.
 A forecasting scheme able to predict, even with a moderate skill, dangerous
 bushfire seasons will give the opotunity for people to decide for themselves
 with months in advance if the risk is acceptable and to take actions accordingl
y.
 Emergency response institutions, especially those associated with fire
 fighting, will have the knowledge to enhance the efficiency of resource
 allocation.
 This translates directly in economic value, and most importantly, it could
 potentially save lives.
 The forecasting index proposed also aims to support long term policy decisions,
 specifically those regarding the reduction of vulnerability to bushfire
 impacts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Structure of the thesis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "/Users/danielpazmino/Documents/My_research/Thesis/LyX/library"
options "/Users/danielpazmino/Documents/My_research/Thesis/LyX/Bibliography/ametsoc"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
